
How albums were selected:
Compilation albums were avoided.
Highest selling albums of decade (based on RIAA) were placed into genre 
If that album had no vinyl sales on eBay, move to next highest selling one.



Data to Collect:
Do this for every album, once for vinyl and once for CD.


Chart 1
Hotness Measure:
Total sold in the last weeks or so + currently selling + a few poins for total bid counts

Chart 2
Average revenue earned per copy

Omitted BestSelling Albums:

90s:
No Vinyl:
Shania Twian Come on Over
Garth Brooks - Double Live


00s
No vinyl available for any plaitnum country album
Shania Twain - Up
Carrie Underwoods - Some Hearts
Dixie Chicks - Home
Wilson Gretchen - Here for the Party 
Kenney Chesney When the Sun Goes Down
Keith Urban Be Here
Zac Brown Band - THe Foundation
Toby Keith - Shock'n Y'all
Big & Rich - Horse of a Different COlor
Tim McGraw LIVE LIKE YOU WERE DYING
Brad Paisely Time well wasted
Josh Turner Your Man
Kenny Chesney No Shirt, No Shoes, No Problems


'12
Too Pop:
Taylor Swift - Red

No Vinyl:
Carrie Underwood - Blown Away
Jason Aldean Blown Away


TODO: Overview Mode: press a key and now user is now in free move mode.
go back to axis vew by pressing the same key again
//Fix lighting.


Introduction

Although it is widely known that the compact disc format outsells vinyl records by a lot, 
there is still an audience for this analog format. Nielsen reports that in 2012, sales of LP albums rose by 17.7% compared to 2011, whereas sales of CDs dropped by 13.5%. Although eBay may not be the first place people go to for music on physical media, we tried to coax something out of the data.

We measured two things:
Activity - Recent sales, current sales, and bid counts.

Revenue - The amount of money obtained from selling music on eBay.

Of course, activity would always be lower for vinyl than for CD.
To make the comparisons more interesting, we also looked at two other things:

1. Release date of an album (80s, 90s, 00s, 2012)
2. Genre (Pop, Hip Hop, Rock, Country)

The albums were strictly chosen based on sales statistics. You can read more about the selection process in the section below the visualization.

//Put this in a div beside the visualization
Key Commands:
q: alternate between side and front view
c: cycle genres. When in front view, albums among a particular genre can be compared.
f: toggle free camera mode to look around the scene.


http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20130104005149/en/Nielsen-Company-Billboard%E2%80%99s-2012-Music-Industry-Report

Why aren't N'Sync or The Backstreet Boys on here?
As with some other high-selling albums, no vinyl version was relased. We went through the highest selling albums until a vinyl copy was found on eBay.

Country albums in the last decade were the worst offenders. No platinum or higher sellng country album was found on vinyl.
Here is a partial list of ommitted country albums.

Shania Twain - Up
Carrie Underwoods - Some Hearts
Dixie Chicks - Home
Wilson Gretchen - Here for the Party 
Kenney Chesney  - When the Sun Goes Down
Keith Urban  - Be Here
Zac Brown Band - The Foundation
Toby Keith - Shock'n Y'all
Big & Rich - Horse of a Different Color
Tim McGraw  - Live Like You Were Dying
Brad Paisely -  Time Well Wasted
Josh Turner  - Your Man
Kenny Chesney -  No Shirt, No Shoes, No Problems